what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose today I'm
gonna be making a video all about work
experience what is work experience how
can you get it what should you do to go
about getting it and just some general
tips and advice that you guys should
keep in mind when looking for work
experience and when actually on work
experience you guys don't know who I am
my name is Nasir I'm a second year
medical teams College London and I make
these YouTube videos to try and help you
guys and your goals of getting accepted
into Medical School hopefully find them
useful and if you want to follow me on
my journey subscribe to this channel you
don't follow me on Instagram
quickly quickly quickly go go go go hit
that follow button let's get right into
the topic of this video which is all
about work experience so when you're in
high school and you're doing your
applications for medical school one of
the biggest things and one of the
increasingly important parts of the
application is gaining work experience
now there are many reasons to get work
experience one of them is that you
almost have to in order to apply to
medicine it's become a requirement for a
lot of medical schools now so what
really is work experience work
experience is when you go to the place
of work where you hope to have a career
in the future to sort of see what it's
like
to get a feel for the area to get a feel
for what it is that someone in that
position does and this is really
beneficial for you it lets you know if
this is something that you actually want
to do for example I have a lot of
friends who when we were in high school
everyone wanted to do medicine I want to
be a doctor I want to do medicine blah
blah blah and then some of them went to
work experience and they came back
saying wow that's not at all what I
thought being a doctor was I don't want
to do this anymore
and trust me you want to know what
you're getting into before you begin the
path to medicine because it is a long
one now like I said work experience is
becoming increasingly important in the
application and that's because it's a
very good way to the admission scheme
that you actually know what you're
talking about you have to show the
admissions team that you have a
realistic understanding of what studying
medicine is that you know that medicine
is something that you want to do and
that you don't just think of scrubs or
Grey's Anatomy or whatever when you
think about medicine you actually know
that a hospital is extremely chaotic you
know that you're gonna have to be faced
with difficult decisions you know that
you're gonna have to managing people
leading people medical schools want to
see that you are aware of all this stuff
before you apply to medicine it's also
an amazing opportunity for you to
develop yourself you can build on your
intern
no skills you can build on your
interpersonal skills you can practice
you know talking to people who you don't
know who might be different than you
from different backgrounds ethnicity is
the mental states whatever it is so I
want this video to kind of act as like a
fYI or by the way about work experience
just to tell you guys some advice and
general tips and things about work
experience that you might not have known
that'll hopefully help you get started
on your journey to finding work
experience and knowing what to expect
when it comes to it okay so the first
thing you want to do is decide what the
actual work experience is that you want
what is it that you're looking for is it
shadowing someone for example a doctor
or healthcare assistant or a pharmacist
is a volunteering at an elderly home at
a youth disability Center or do you want
a sort of taster of multiple different
things a sort of traditional work
experience shadowing means that you
follow an individual for example a
doctor throughout the day for maybe a
couple of days or a week and you see
exactly what it is they do every hour of
their day and that gives you a really
good insight into what medicine is and
what it could be like for you to be a
doctor in the future the second type of
work experience is what's called like
volunteering which is where you go and
you basically try and help out with
whatever the staff needs throughout the
day but it's also a good way for you to
get involved in that area and see what
it's like for yourself whatever it is
just trying to immerse yourself in the
medical field really any experience
where you're talking to other people
where you're dealing with other people
is gonna be very useful and translatable
directly to medicine the second thing is
that different schools require different
amounts and different kinds of work
experience and I'll post a link in the
description below showing all the
different schools in the UK and what it
is they look for when it comes to work
experience if you know you want to apply
to a certain set of schools make sure
you check that list first but anyway
have a read of it so you know what kinds
of things they're looking for for
example you see that many schools want
you to work in an area where dealing
with other people and helping other
people is the main or primary focus you
might see that some schools specifically
maybe for graduate entry medicine
students want to see specific shadowing
or specific volunteer experience in a
hospital it really depends so check out
this list and make sure you're familiar
with it the third thing I want to say is
apply early early early early and I
can't stress that enough these places
are so competitive there are many other
students just like you who want to find
work experience and believe me they're
gonna be applying early as well so
really apply as early as you can these
place
get filled up very quickly and you want
to give yourself that advantage the
fourth thing is that when you're
searching for these work experiences of
course Google is very useful and you can
reach out to people by email but I would
highly highly recommend placing a : find
your phone or whatever or going into the
place physically and this I think is a
huge advantage because very few students
are going to be willing to place a call
and even if fewer students are gonna be
willing to go in physically to the
location it's so much easier for a staff
member to hire a face that they actually
know that they've dealt with them to
respond to and hire someone from an
email so really if you can go in and
make that first impression you may be
bringing a CV with you or something like
that
it's really gonna go a long way when it
comes to finding work experience try and
make that physical connection whether
it's over the phone or in person I know
it can be scary going in in person but
trust me putting a face to the name is
extremely extremely valuable so tip
number five is about how do you get work
experience who do you ask who do you
talk to and the answer to this is really
anyone and everyone anyone who you know
who's even remotely related to the NHS
talk to them and see if they can find
someone who you can work with or shadow
or volunteer to help you get that work
experience if you have any contact with
from your family or from your school
this is the time to use them visit your
school talk to the person involved in
helping you get into Medical School and
they should be able to help you find
work experiences they should be able to
help connect you and of course in the
end you need to do your own research you
need to go in Google scavenge the
different local hospitals the different
local GPs in your area give them call
send them emails going in person and
talk to the right people to make sure
you get that work experience the sixth
thing is that I know that some hospitals
have a requirement of being 18 or older
before you can work or volunteer in them
and some GP practices have a requirement
of being over the age of 16 so make sure
you look into those things make sure you
know any requirements that you have to
have before actually applying or before
trying to connect with that area really
just make sure you know what it is
you're applying to number seven is that
before you actually get accepted into
any of these hospitals or volunteer
positions you might get interviewed and
this probably won't be super formal
it'll probably be more like a casual
conversation just to see that you're an
okay person who can enter these
environments but you might want to
practice a little bit your formal
speaking skills you might want to
explore your reasons for wanting to
medicine your reasons for volunteering
just in case they ask you so that you
have something to say
number eight so once you actually make
it to your work experience obviously you
want to dress smart you want to be
polite you want to be searching for
opportunities asking people where you
can help where you can do things just to
make a really valuable experience for
yourself but the most important thing
and I can't stress this enough can't
stress this enough the most important
thing you have to do is reflect on your
experiences the end of the day it
doesn't matter where you volunteered who
you volunteered what you did the
important thing is how you reflect on
them and how you show the admissions
committee what it is that you learned
from those experiences so what I
recommend is that throughout the day you
have a notebook if anything cool or
interesting happens just jot it down a
little bit but at the end of the day you
want to really sit down for like half an
hour and pick your brain about the
experiences that you had throughout that
day reflect on everything what did you
see
how did it make you feel what did you
learn is there anything that made you
uncomfortable is there anything that
made you happy just anything reflect
reflect reflect write down all these
thoughts and feelings because when it
comes to interview time these notes are
gonna be invaluable to you you're really
gonna wish you had done this so trust me
reflect every single day on all the
activities that you did do it
number nine is if you can try and obtain
multiple work experiences and the goal
isn't to just shadow the same doctor or
multiple doctors many different times
you want to do different experiences
that give you different insights and
aspects to medicine if you can do
shadowing maybe a pharmacist or
volunteering at a care home and then
working in a GP and and maybe working at
a disability Center or in an elderly
home you want to try and get a wide
range of experience at his age so that
you know that you actually want to do
this because your work is gonna involve
all these different things but be so
that you can show the admissions
committee that you actually know what it
means to be a doctor you know what it
means in the medical field and you know
that this is something you want to do so
I would advocate to get a range of
experiences if you can a number-10 work
experience is obviously something very
useful something you definitely want to
do and it can help you a lot both for
yourself and for the application but if
you can't find a specific medical
related work experience don't worry too
much a lot of other experiences are
directly useful and directly
translatable to medicine anything you do
can have applicable skills and can be
related to medicine and being a doctor
there's leadership there's management
there's communication there's searching
for detail
there's adapting there's all these
things that you can learn in other kinds
of experiences other kinds of work
experiences that aren't necessarily
related to medicine anywhere where
you're out of your comfort zone you're
dealing with different people and you're
having to adapt it's just gonna be very
very relatable and useful for medicine
also if you do something a bit different
it can really give you a unique
advantage when applying to medical
school you want to have something that
stands out something that's really
unique on your application that makes
the admissions committee saying wow like
let me let me think about this twice let
me read this again because when they're
reading hundreds of applications they
want to see something different that
stands out for example when I was at
university I was working on the
aerospace team we were working on
building some experiments that would go
on a satellite that was gonna get
launched by NASA so I was really cool
something that was really out there just
have something unique and different on
your application if you can that'll go a
long long way and the last thing I want
to say I'm gonna put some links in the
description for some useful resources by
the BMJ
even medified has this page where you
can search for or work experiences that
are near you they have this map and you
can like click your address and you'll
see what's closeby to you that might be
a good place to start also do your own
research on Google and whatever but I
help post a bunch of links in the
description that will hopefully help you
alright guys and that's it for this
video if you liked it make sure you
leave a like on this video subscribe to
the channel if you want to see more
videos from me I hope you liked it hope
you found it useful and I'll see you in
the next one peace